---
page_title: "redpanda_network Resource - terraform-provider-redpanda"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Network represents a Redpanda Cloud managed network
---

# redpanda_network (Resource)

Network represents a Redpanda Cloud managed network

Creates a network in the Redpanda Cloud.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cloud_provider` (String) The cloud provider to create the network in.
- `cluster_type` (String) The type of cluster this network is associated with, can be one of dedicated or byoc
- `name` (String) Name of the network
- `region` (String) The region to create the network in.
- `resource_group_id` (String) The ID of the resource group in which to create the network. Must be a valid UUID.

### Optional

- `cidr_block` (String) The cidr_block to create the network in
- `customer_managed_resources` (Attributes) Cloud resources created by user. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources))
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the network. Must match pattern `^[a-v0-9]{20}`.
- `state` (String) Current state of the network.
- `zones` (List of String) Network availability zones.

<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources`

Optional:

- `aws` (Attributes) The AWS resources managed by user. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws))
- `gcp` (Attributes) GCP resources created and managed by user, and required to deploy the Redpanda cluster. See [Create a BYOVPC Cluster on GCP](https://docs.redpanda.com/redpanda-cloud/get-started/cluster-types/byoc/gcp/vpc-byo-gcp/) for details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--gcp))

<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.aws`

Required:

- `dynamodb_table` (Attributes) AWS DynamoDB table specification. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--dynamodb_table))
- `management_bucket` (Attributes) AWS storage bucket properties by ARN. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--management_bucket))
- `private_subnets` (Attributes) AWS Subnets Specification (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--private_subnets))
- `vpc` (Attributes) AWS VPC Specification (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--vpc))

<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--dynamodb_table"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.aws.dynamodb_table`

Required:

- `arn` (String) AWS DynamoDB table identifier.


<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--management_bucket"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.aws.management_bucket`

Required:

- `arn` (String) AWS storage bucket identifier.


<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--private_subnets"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.aws.private_subnets`

Required:

- `arns` (List of String) AWS private subnet identifiers. Items must be unique.


<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--aws--vpc"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.aws.vpc`

Required:

- `arn` (String) AWS VPC identifier. Must match pattern `^arn:[a-z\-]{3,}:ec2:[a-z0-9\-]+:[0-9]+:vpc\/.+$`.



<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--gcp"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.gcp`

Required:

- `management_bucket` (Attributes) GCP storage bucket properties. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--gcp--management_bucket))
- `network_name` (String) Name of user-created network where the Redpanda cluster is deployed to. See the official [GCP API reference](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/rest/v1/networks). Length must be at most 62. Must match pattern `^[a-z]([-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?$`.
- `network_project_id` (String) GCP project ID where the network is created. Length must be at most 30. Must match pattern `^[a-z]([-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?$`.

<a id="nestedatt--customer_managed_resources--gcp--management_bucket"></a>
### Nested Schema for `customer_managed_resources.gcp.management_bucket`

Required:

- `name` (String) GCP storage bucket name for storing the state of Redpanda cluster deployment. Length must be between 3 and 63. Must match pattern `^[a-z]([-_a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?$`.




<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "redpanda" {}

resource "redpanda_resource_group" "example" {
  name = "example-resource-group"
}

resource "redpanda_network" "example" {
  name              = "example-network"
  resource_group_id = redpanda_resource_group.example.id
  cloud_provider    = "aws"
  region            = "us-west-2"
  cluster_type      = "dedicated"
  cidr_block        = "10.0.0.0/20"
}
```

## Import

```shell
terraform import redpanda_network.example networkId
```

## API Reference

For more information, see the [Redpanda Cloud Control Plane API documentation](https://docs.redpanda.com/api/cloud-controlplane-api/).