---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "redpanda_serverless_private_link Resource - terraform-provider-redpanda"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a Redpanda Serverless Private Link
---

# redpanda_serverless_private_link (Resource)

Manages a Redpanda Serverless Private Link



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cloud_provider` (String) Cloud provider (aws)
- `name` (String) Name of the serverless private link
- `resource_group_id` (String) The ID of the Resource Group in which to create the serverless private link
- `serverless_region` (String) Redpanda serverless region

### Optional

- `allow_deletion` (Boolean) Allows deletion of the serverless private link. Defaults to false.
- `aws_config` (Attributes) AWS-specific configuration. Required when cloud_provider is 'aws'. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--aws_config))
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the serverless private link
- `state` (String) Current state of the serverless private link (STATE_CREATING, STATE_READY, STATE_DELETING, STATE_FAILED, STATE_UPDATING)
- `status` (Attributes) Cloud provider specific status information (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--status))

<a id="nestedatt--aws_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws_config`

Required:

- `allowed_principals` (List of String) AWS principals (ARNs) allowed to connect to the private link endpoint


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).


<a id="nestedatt--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `status`

Read-Only:

- `aws` (Attributes) AWS-specific status information (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--status--aws))

<a id="nestedatt--status--aws"></a>
### Nested Schema for `status.aws`

Read-Only:

- `availability_zones` (List of String) Availability zones where the private link endpoint service is available
- `vpc_endpoint_service_name` (String) VPC endpoint service name for connecting to the private link
